Israel has reacted angrily to a decision
by the UN Security Council to pass a
resolution demanding an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza for the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan the United States
decided not to block the measure having
vetoed three previous efforts in
response Israel's prime minister
canceled plans to send a highlevel
delegation to Washington the resolution
had also demanded the immediate release
of all hostages still being held by
Hamas the group behind the October 7th
terror attack
well there's no doubt that that UN
resolution will feature in talks later
between Germany's foreign minister
analena barbach and Top members of the
Israeli government now barbach has
already called on Israel not to launch a
military offensive against the city of
Rafa in Gaza while she has cautiously
welcomed the UN ceasefire
resolution today there is perhaps the
glimmer of light on the
horizon the call by the security Council
and therefore the International
Community for a ceasefire is
overdue let's get across live to
Jerusalem and DW's Rebecca Ritter
Rebecca uh Germany's foreign minister
she's already met with Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas and she will meet
her Israeli counterpart foreign minister
Israel Catz later this morning what do
you think we can expect to hear there
after her comments on that Security
Council
resolution well CL I don't think we can
expect anything too out of the ordinary
from this meeting today this is the
seventh Min uh seventh visit rather by
minister bearok to Israel since the War
Began and I think we can expect a bit
more of the same though we are starting
to see the temperature going up even
when it comes to Germany and Israel's
relationship that special relationship
uh given its historical context now we
have seen Minister Bok come out in
support of the UN Security Council as
you just heard there and that vote
yesterday though Germany not actually a
member on that Council didn't vote in
that security uh Council vote yesterday
but coming out in support which is
already uh pretty strong for Germany who
normally uh stands in steadfast support
of Israel but we think we'll see that
continuation I think as I mentioned we
might see a turning up of the
temperature and the rhetoric at that
meeting but I think publicly we'll see
Germany standing by Israel you know the
the Germany bebok even saying in
background briefings that there aren't
that many carrots all that many sticks
that Germany can use at this stage and
at this stage without having gone into
Rafer it still looks as though Israel
hasn't crossed any red lines that would
see Germany take any further action and
top EU officials have also uh welcomed
that Security Council resolution but
what has Israel's response to it been
are there chances that it might abide by
the
resolution I think we're certainly
seeing the opposite to that so far CLA
we Israel cats that Minister the foreign
minister that we were just talking about
there who'll be meeting meeting with bok
later today came out after that vote
saying we will not put out the fire and
we have Benny guns come out on X shortly
after he's a member of the war cabinet
not a member of the government but a
very important player uh in this
six-month conflict so far he came out
saying that Israel had a moral
obligation to continue fighting to
continue fighting to try to get out the
hostages though it is notable that in
that uh tweet or that message on X that
benun didn't mention the other military
aim is of course destroying hamas's
military capabilities he just mentioned
the hostages so that could be uh
somewhat of a change in rhetoric but I
think you know we're seeing at least in
the rhetoric and the Bluster coming from
Israel that they are going to continue
that they will not abide by the UN
Security Council vote so we'll have to
see what that means when it comes to
Rafer of course they are going to need
us support when it comes to Rafer and
now we've seen uh that support at least
you know when it comes to the rhetoric
uh even if that doesn't mean anything
changing exactly yet on the ground we
are seeing that start to change we'll
have to see what happens going forward
but it looks like uh Israel are going to
ignore that un Security Council vote at
this stage and what about its relations
with Washington we have Israel now
having canceled a delegations a planned
trip to the US after that us extension
do you think we're seeing a shift in US
policy V Israel at the United
Nations I think we're certainly seeing a
shift in the relation ship if even if
that doesn't translate exactly to a
shift of practicalities on the ground
yet CLA we you know we have seen
obviously a big decision yesterday by
the US to abstain from that vote not to
use their veto power uh we have been
seeing in recent days and weeks the
rhetoric by the US changing when it
comes to Israel and their actions on the
ground particularly when it comes to the
planned uh incursion into Rafa that
southern city now home to over a million
uh displaced Palestinians or or taking
shelter there so you know we are seeing
a change in that special relationship
that steadfast uh relationship that we
have seen Israel support uh sorry us
support Israel throughout this six
months we are starting to see the tone
change there and as you mentioned uh the
counseling of that delegation to the us
though it must be said that the defense
minister yoav galand is in the US and
will be continuing with the scheduled
meetings that he was supposed to have so
there are of course still between these
two allies but we are starting to see
that relationship change how that plays
out in the future remains to be seen but
for the moment Israel uh certainly no
doubt behind the scenes worried about
what's going on between these two
relationships Rebecca thank you so much
as always that's Rebecca riters for
us